Amandine Cake - Chef's Pencil
Amandine Cake
Paula
4.89 from 51 votes
PREP TIME
2 hrs
COOK TIME
25 mins
COURSE
TOTAL TIME
2 hrs 25 mins
CUISINE
Dessert
INGREDIENTS
International, Romanian
SERVINGS
12 servings
Sponge:
4 eggs
2 tbsp oil
4 tbsp sugar
4 tbsp flour
2 tbsp cocoa powder
1/2 packet baking powder
a pinch of salt
Syrup:
100 ml water
1 tbsp honey
1 tsp rum essence
1 tsp instant coffee
Cream:
3 egg yolks
50 ml milk
150 g sugar
1 tsp rum essence
3 tbsp cocoa powder
200 g butter
Fondant:
125 ml water
240 g white sugar
2 tbsp honey
2 tbsp water
2 tbsp cocoa powder

INSTRUCTIONS
The sponge:
1. Separate the egg yolks from the egg whites. Whip the egg whites with a pinch of salt, then
gradually add the sugar and continue mixing until the sugar is completely dissolved.
2. Combine the flour with the cocoa powder and baking powder.
3. Combine the egg yolks with the oil. Gently fold the egg yolks into the egg white foam, with
upward movements. Then gently fold in the dry ingredients, with upward movements.
4. Preheat the oven to 180 °C (360 °F)and line a large baking tray with parchment paper. Pour the
mixture into the tray and smooth it out. Bake for approximately 25-30 minutes, or until it passes
the toothpick test. Leave to cool, then cut it in half (vertically).
5. The syrup: Heat up the water and turn off the heat before it starts to boil. Add the honey, coffee,
and rum. Stir well, then let cool.
The cream:
1. Using a mixer, combine the egg yolks with the sugar and continue mixing until they lighten in
color, then incorporate the cocoa powder.
2. Place the milk over a low heat. Once warm, pour the milk, little by little, over the egg yolks,
stirring continuously. Place the mixture over a low heat and cook until it thickens, achieving a
pudding-like consistency. Take the cream off the heat and throw in the diced butter, stirring
gently until it has completely melted.
3. Cover the cream with cling film and refrigerate until completely cooled.
Assembly:
1. Coat both cake pieces with the syrup. Spread 2/3 of the cream on one of the cake layers and
place the other one on top. Keep the rest of the cream for decoration. Refrigerate until the cream
is fully set. Remove from the refrigerator and with a sharp knife, portion it according to
preference.
The fondant:
1. This is a bit more complicated, or so it seemed to me because so far all of the steps are pretty
easy and the results are all beautiful... the fondant is not rocket science either, just a bit more
work.
2. Place the water over a medium heat along with the sugar (lots of sugar :P). Leave to boil for
about 14-15 minutes from when it starts to boil. Or, if you like a thinner fondant, boil for 12-13
minutes.
3. Take the syrup off the heat, add the honey, and stir until fully incorporated. Place the saucepan
into a bowl of cold water, making sure that the water doesn’t seep over the sides into the
fondant, and stir with a wooden spoon. If the syrup seems too thick, add 2 tablespoons of water.
4. Stir thoroughly (possibly eat something beforehand - you'll need the strength) until the syrup
turns white, similar to the color of cream. Now it's time to add the cocoa powder and stir again
until you get a glossy and smooth cream. Your fondant is ready.
5. Decorate each amandine with a spoonful or two of fondant, then refrigerate. When the fondant
has hardened enough, decorate the amandine with the cream that was set aside, and there you
go... Enjoy a wonderful amandine.
NOTES
Tried this recipe?
Let us know how it was!

https://www.chefspencil.com/wprm_print/amandine-cake