Angel Food Cake (Light & Fluffy) - Sally's Baking
4.8 from 426 reviews

Angel Food Cake
Author: Sally McKenney Prep Time: 25 minutes
Cook Time: 40 minutes Total Time: 4 hours Yield: serves 10-12
Using only 6 ingredients, this perfect angel food cake bakes up tall, light, and airy. For best
results, read the recipe in full before beginning and have all your ingredients ready to go. Enjoy! 

Ingredients
1 and 3/4 cups (350g) granulated sugar*
1 cup + 2 Tablespoons (133g) cake flour (spooned & leveled)
1/4 teaspoon salt
12 large egg whites, at room temperature*
1 and 1/2 teaspoons cream of tartar
1 and 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
optional: confectioners’ sugar for dusting, whipped cream, and berries

Instructions
1. Adjust the oven rack to the lower middle position and preheat oven to 325°F (163°C).
2. In a food processor or blender, pulse the sugar until fine and powdery. Remove 1 cup and
set aside to use in step 3; keep the rest inside the food processor. Add the cake flour and
salt to the food processor. Pulse 5-10 times until sugar/flour/salt mixture is aerated and
light.
3. In a large bowl using a hand mixer or a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, whip
egg whites and cream of tartar together on medium-low until foamy, about 1 minute.
Switch to medium-high and slowly add the 1 cup of sugar you set aside. Whip until soft
peaks form, about 5-6 minutes. See photo and video above for a visual. Add the vanilla
extract, then beat just until incorporated.
4. In 3 additions, slowly sift the flour mixture into the egg white mixture using a fine mesh
strainer, gently folding with a rubber spatula after each addition. To avoid deflating or a
dense cake, don’t add the flour mixture all at once. Sift and very slowly fold in several
additions. This is important! Pour and spread batter into an ungreased 9 or 10 inch tube
pan. Shimmy the pan on the counter to smooth down the surface.
5. Bake the cake until a toothpick inserted comes out clean, about 40-45 minutes. Rotate the
pan halfway through baking. The cake will rise up very tall while baking. Remove from the
oven, then cool the cake completely upside-down set on a wire rack, about 3 hours.
(Upside-down so the bottom of the tube pan is right-side up, see photo and video above.)
Once cooled, run a thin knife around the edges and gently tap the pan on the counter
until the cake releases.
6. If desired, dust with confectioners’ sugar. Slice the cake with a sharp serrated knife. Regular
knives can easily squish the cake. Serve with whipped cream and fresh berries.
7. Store leftovers in the refrigerator for up to 5 days.
Notes
1. Make Ahead & Freezing Instructions: Prepare the angel food cake one day in advance,
then cover tightly and store at room temperature overnight. Angel food cake can be
frozen for up to 3 months. Thaw overnight in the refrigerator, then bring to room
temperature before serving.
2. Special Tools (affiliate links): Blender or Food Processor | Electric Mixer (Handheld or
Stand) | Egg Separator | Fine Mesh Sieve | Silicone Spatula | Tube Pan | Cooling Rack
3. Sugar: In this recipe, you use granulated sugar and pulse it in a food processor to make
superfine sugar. If you have superfine sugar or caster sugar, use that. Pulse 3/4 cup of it
with the dry ingredients in step 2. Use 1 cup of it in step 3.
4. Egg Whites: I strongly recommend using fresh real egg whites instead of egg white
substitutes, previously frozen egg whites, or egg whites from a carton. Separate the eggs
when they’re cold, then bring the egg whites to room temperature. Fresh room
temperature egg whites whip into the fluffiest volume. A large egg white weighs about
30g, so you will need 360g egg whites for this recipe. With the extra yolks, make lemon
curd or some of these recipes.
5. Pan: An angel food cake pan (aka tube pan) is imperative. Do not use a Bundt pan. Angel
food cake’s structure and stability requires the tube pan’s particular specifications. Some
angel food cake pans come with little feet, which makes cooling the cake upside down
easy. If your pan has feet, no need to use a wire rack. Whether your tube pan has feet or
not, cool the cake upside down as directed in step 5.
6. Party Angel Food Cake: Turn this cake into a party by gently folding in 1/2 cup of
rainbow sprinkles before pouring and spreading the batter into the tube pan. Once cake is
ready to serve, skip the confectioners’ sugar and top with chocolate ganache and more
sprinkles.
Adapted from Cook’s Illustrated
Find it online: https://sallysbakingaddiction.com/angel-food-cake/
