Easy Banh Bo Nuong (Vietnamese
Honeycomb Cake)
Banh Bo Nuong or Vietnamese honeycomb cake is one of the most
popular cakes in Vietnamese cuisine. It is characterized by a beautiful
honeycomb appearance and a yummy pandan, coconut flavor. Learn all
the ins and outs of making this classic Vietnamese dessert including what
goes into getting the perfect honeycomb appearance.
20 mins 50 mins 1 hr

Course: Dessert Cuisine: Vietnamese Diet: Gluten Free, Vegetarian
Keyword: banh bo nuong, banh bo nuong recipe, vietnamese honeycomb cake
Servings: 6 people 
Calories: 380kcal 
Author: Becca Du

Equipment
Angel Food Cake Pan
Cast Iron Bundt Pan
Sieve Strainer
Vitamix Blender

Ingredients
14 oz coconut milk full fat
10 pandan leaves
5 eggs
1 ⅓ cup granulated sugar
½ tsp pandan extract
½ tsp vanilla extract
1 cup tapioca starch
1 packet single acting baking powder
½ tsp salt

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (177 degrees C). Put the bundt pan in the oven to preheat.
2. Blend together 14 oz of coconut milk and 10 pandan leaves. Strain the liquid into a large
bowl. Press the leaves into a fine mesh sieve to get as much of the coconut milk out as
possible.
3. Mix coconut milk with 5 eggs and 1 ⅓ cup of granulated sugar slowly, preventing the
formation of bubbles. I like to strain the eggs through a fine mesh sieve to help it better
incorporate.
4. Add ½ tsp of pandan extract and ½ tsp of vanilla extract to the mixture and mix until
combined.
5. Mix 1 cup of tapioca starch, 1 packet of single acting baking powder, and ½ tsp of salt
and add into the mixture.
6. Stir until combined. Strain the batter through a fine mesh sieve to get rid of any lumps. This
helps the tapioca starch incorporate into the batter.
7. Retrieve the bundt pan from the oven and pour in the batter. Bake for 50-55 minutes until a
toothpick comes out clean.
8. Once done, flip pan over and let it stand for at least 60 minutes until it is completely cool. I
like to do this for up to 2 hours.
9. Run a knife around the edge of the cake to release it. Flip it upside down to release the cake
from the pan.

Notes
1. You can make this recipe without pandan leaves. If leaving out pandan leaves, use 1 tsp of
pandan extract.
2. Store banh bo nuong in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days. Store in
the fridge if your home is too warm.

Nutrition
Serving: 1piece | Calories: 380kcal | Carbohydrates: 53g | Protein: 6g | Fat: 18g | Saturated Fat: 14g |
Polyunsaturated Fat: 1g | Monounsaturated Fat: 2g | Trans Fat: 0.01g | Cholesterol: 136mg | Sodium:
255mg | Potassium: 202mg | Sugar: 33g | Vitamin A: 198IU | Vitamin C: 1mg | Calcium: 37mg | Iron:
3mg

Easy Banh Bo Nuong (Vietnamese Honeycomb Cake) - Cooking Therapy
https://www.cooking-therapy.com/wprm_print/easy-banh-bo-nuong-vietnamese-honeycomb-cake 