Battenberg cake recipe - BBC Food
Battenberg cake
4.6 | 10 ratings

Prepare
30 mins to 1 hour

Cook
10 to 30 mins

Serve
Makes 1 cake

Dietary
Pregnancy-friendly Vegetarian

Battenberg cake is a true classic for afternoon tea. The Hairy Bikers' recipe makes it foolproof.
By The Hairy Bikers
From The Hairy Bikers: Mums Know Best

Ingredients
For the cake
175g/6oz soened butter, plus extra for greasing
175g/6oz golden caster sugar
3 free-range eggs
175g/6oz self-raising flour
½ tsp vanilla extract
red food colouring paste
For the covering
6 tbsp apricot jam
500g/1lb 2oz ready-made marzipan
2–3 tbsp icing sugar, for rolling.

Method
1. Preheat the oven to 190C/375F/Gas 5.
2. Grease a 20cm/8in square, loose-based cake tin with butter.
3. Take a 30cm x 20cm/12in x 8in strip of baking parchment and make a 8cm/3in fold in the
centre. This will create a division in the cake so that the two differently coloured sponges
can be cooked at the same time.
4. Line the tin with the baking parchment, keeping the division in the centre.
5. Put the butter, sugar, eggs, flour and vanilla in a food processor and pulse until well
combined.
6. Transfer the batter to a bowl set on scales, remove half of the batter and put it in a different
bowl.
7. Add a small dab of red food colouring to one bowl and fold it into the batter until it is well
blended.
8. Spoon the cake batters into each side of the prepared tin and smooth the surface with the
back of a spoon.
9. Bake in the centre of the oven for about 25 minutes, or until the sponges have risen. Cool in
the tin for five minutes, then slide a knife around the outside of each sponge and turn them
out onto a wire rack. If the sponges have risen unevenly, press the surface gently until level.
Leave until completely cold.
10. To assemble the cake, first place one sponge on top of the other and trim off the crusty
edges so they are both the same size. Cut the sponges in half lengthways to make four long
rectangles.
11. Warm the apricot jam in a saucepan then press through a fine sieve.
12. Brush the long side of one of the sponges with jam and sandwich together with a sponge of
a contrasting colour. Do the same with the other two sponges.
13. Sandwich the two pairs of sponges together like a checker board and brush the top and
sides with jam.
14. Place the marzipan on a surface dusted with icing sugar and roll into a rectangle of about
40cm x 20cm/16in x 10in; it should be large enough to wrap the cake completely, leaving
the ends exposed, and be about 5mm/¼in thick.
15. Turn the cake upside down on the marzipan and brush the underside of the sponges with
jam.
16. Wrap the marzipan around the cake, pressing it gently onto the surface of the sponges, and
press the edges together to make a firm join.
17. Turn back over with the seam underneath, trim a thin slice off each end and place on a
serving plate.

https://www.bbc.co.uk/food/recipes/battenburg_cake_60878