Baumkuchen (German Tree Cake)

This Baumkuchen recipe yields a stunning almond-flavored cake with many paper thin layers (mine has 11). While it is traditionally made on a spit, my version for home bakers can be done in the oven. It's not a cake for beginners, but if you are up for a challenge, you will be wildly rewarded with the end result. The cake is gorgeous, moist, not too sweet, and the almond flavor pairs so well with the dark chocolate topping.

Prep Time: 30 mins 
Cook Time: 18 mins
Total Time: 48 mins

Course: Dessert Cuisine: German Servings: 12 Calories: 502kcal Author: Stefani

  
    
Ingredients
18 tablespoons unsalted butter room temperature - this is the same as 1 cup + 2 tablespoons
1 1/4 cups sugar
6 large eggs separated
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
4 ounces marzipan
3 tablespoons amaretto
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
2/3 cup cornstarch
3 teaspoons baking powder
7 1/2 ounces dark chocolate

Instructions
1. In a medium-sized mixing bowl, beat together the butter and sugar with an electric mixer
until light and fluffy.
18 tablespoons unsalted butter,1 1/4 cups sugar
2. Mix in egg yolks, vanilla extract, and almond extract until frothy. Set aside.
6 large eggs,1 teaspoon vanilla extract,1/4 teaspoon almond extract
3. Break up the marzipan and heat it in a small pot on low heat with amaretto. Stir until smooth.
(You can also do this in the microwave in short bursts, but it is harder to monitor and you run
the risk of burning the marzipan.)
4 ounces marzipan,3 tablespoons amaretto
4. Add melted marzipan to the batter and stir until full combined.
5. Mix flour, cornstarch, and baking powder together and add to the batter a little bit at a time.
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour,2/3 cup cornstarch,3 teaspoons baking powder
6. Whip egg whites until stiff peaks form. They should hold their shape when lifted with a whisk.
7. Fold egg whites into batter.
8. Turn on the broiler to 450 F and make sure to have a shelf in the middle position in the oven.
9. Line a 9" springform pan with parchment and spread about 3 tablespoons of batter over the
parchment.
10. Place in the oven until it just starts to brown. Keep a very close eye on it. In my oven, this took
100 seconds.
11. Spread the next layer of batter on top of the first one and return to the oven until that layer
just starts to brown.
12. Repeat until all of the batter is used up. It should be about 11 layers.
13. Cool the cake to room temperature and then remove it from the springform.
14. Set an inverted bowl on top of a piece of parchment paper and place the cake on the bowl.
15. Melt and temper the chocolate. 7 1/2 ounces dark chocolate
16. Pour melted chocolate over the top and down the sides of the cake. Smooth and even it out with an offset spatula.
17. Cool to room temperature then store in an airtight container until ready to serve.

Notes
If the marzipan isn't fully melted or overcooked to the point of burning, your batter may have
lumps in it. If this is the case, push the batter through a sieve before using it.
If you don't have a 9" springform, it's fine to use a different size. You will just have more or fewer
layers.
If your chocolate hardens before you are done working with it, you can heat it with a culinary torch
on very low heat and then smooth it.
This cake keeps for about one week in an airtight container at room temperature.
Recipe by Lilly of Lilly’s German Bakery

Nutrition
Calories: 502kcal | Carbohydrates: 52g | Protein: 7g | Fat: 29g | Saturated Fat: 16g | Polyunsaturated
Fat: 2g | Monounsaturated Fat: 9g | Trans Fat: 1g | Cholesterol: 128mg | Sodium: 43mg | Potassium:
305mg | Fiber: 3g | Sugar: 30g | Vitamin A: 652IU | Calcium: 82mg | Iron: 3mg

Source: Cupcake Project (https://www.cupcakeproject.com/baumkuchen-german-tree-cake/)
https://www.cupcakeproject.com/wprm_print/baumkuchen-german-tree-cake