Blackberry Zuger Kirschtorte Recipe - Great British Chefs
Blackberry Zuger Kirschtorte Recipe by Food Urchin

8 people
2 hours

Ingredients
Buttercream
200g of blackberries
50ml of kirsch
175g of icing sugar, sifted
150g of unsalted butter, softened
Meringue
4 egg whites
120g of icing sugar
120g of ground almonds
20g of cornflour
Sponge
125g of butter, softened
125g of caster sugar
2 medium eggs
125g of self-raising flour
Kirsch syrup
100g of caster sugar
100ml of water
50ml of kirsch
To decorate
50g of flaked almonds, lightly toasted
10 blackberries
Demerara sugar

Method
1. First you need to macerate the blackberries for the buttercream. Place them in a bowl and
sprinkle over 25g of icing sugar and the kirsch. Mix and set aside- 200g of blackberries- 50ml of kirsch- 25g of icing sugar, sifted
2. To make the meringues, preheat the oven to 170°C/gas mark 3. Take two sheets of
greaseproof paper and using a 20cm cake ring as a template, draw a circle on each one
3. Place the eggs whites in a clean bowl and, using an electric whisk, beat the egg whites with
20g of the icing sugar to begin with. Whisk until you get stiff peaks and then in a separate
bowl, sift in the remaining icing sugar, ground almonds and cornflour
- 4 egg whites
- 20g of cornflour
- 120g of icing sugar
- 120g of ground almonds
4. Gently fold the dry ingredients into the beaten egg whites, a third at a time – do not over
work. Carefully spoon the mix onto each sheet of greaseproof paper, spooning to the edges of
the drawn circles
5. Place in the oven and bake for 40–50 minutes, until the meringue is crisp and golden. Switch
the oven off and leave to cool
6. The meringue will overlap the edge of the circles during cooking, so to get a neater edge, place
the cake ring over the top and run a sharp knife around the inside to trim
7. To make your sponge, grease the same 20cm cake tin with some butter and line the base with
greaseproof paper
8. Place the butter and sugar in a bowl and beat using an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add
the eggs to the mixture, one at a time until incorporated, then fold in the flour
9. Spoon the sponge mix into the cake tin and then place into the oven (keeping it at 170°C/gas
mark 3) and bake for 25–30 minutes, or until a cake skewer inserted in the centre comes out
clean. Leave to cool a touch before removing and placing on a cooling rack
10. Make the syrup by putting the sugar and water in a small pan. Bring to the boil, stirring to
ensure that the sugar dissolves, then set aside
11. Now make the buttercream. First, take the macerated blackberries and place them in a sieve,
using a bowl underneath to catch the liquid. Press down with a fork, squeezing out all the juice
and remaining Kirsch
12. Place the softened butter in a bowl with the icing sugar and beat with an electric mixer for at
least 5 minutes, until pale and fluffy. Slowly pour in the blackberry juice and continue mixing,
until it turns a light pink colour
13. To build your kirschtorte, place one of the meringue discs on a plate or cake stand and spread a
generous amount of the buttercream over the top – just under half of the buttercream
14. Place the sponge cake on top of the buttercream and lightly pierce the top with a skewer (don’t
go all the way through). Using a pastry brush or spoon, soak the sponge with the kirsch syrup
15. Spread the other meringue disc with the same amount of buttercream as before – you want to
have a little left over – and then invert and press down onto the sponge
16. Finish by decorating the meringue with small, piped amounts of buttercream and then pop a
blackberry on top. Scatter some Demerara sugar and some toasted almond flakes over the top
and serve at room temperature – maybe with some more kirsch.

https://www.greatbritishchefs.com/recipes/blackberry-zuger-kirschtorte-recipe/print
