Chocolate Babka - Preppy Kitchen

Chocolate Babka
Author: John Kanell Servings: 16 servings
Prep Time: 9 hours Cook Time: 40 minutes Total Time: 9 hours 40 minutes
A fluffy and sweet bread with chocolate swirled throughout, this Babka recipe is a delightful bread that can
be served for breakfast or dessert!

Equipment
Mixer
Rolling Pin
Whisk
Offset spatula
Knife

Ingredients
FOR THE DOUGH:
4½ cups all-purpose flour (540g)
½ cupgranulated sugar (100g)
2¼ teaspoons instant yeast (1 .25-ounce packet)
4 large eggs room temperature
½ cupwhole milk room temperature
1½ teaspoons kosher salt
10 tablespoons unsalted butter room temperature (142g)
FOR THE FILLING:
½cupunsalted butter cubed (113g)
½ cupheavy cream (120mL)
8 ounces chopped dark chocolate (225g)
¾ cuppowdered sugar (90g)
⅓ cupunsweetened cocoa powder (30g)
FOR THE SYRUP:
⅓ cupgranulated sugar (66g)
⅓ cupwater (80mL)

Instructions
FOR THE DOUGH:
1. Whisk together the flour, sugar, and yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer. Add the eggs, milk, and salt and mix on
low speed using the dough hook attachment until combined and a dough starts to form, for about 2 minutes.
2. Add the butter a tablespoon or so at a time, waiting for the butter to be incorporated before adding more.
Once all the butter has been added, continue kneading until a smooth elastic dough forms, about 10 minutes,
scraping down the sides of the bowl occasionally. The dough will still feel sticky but will be very stretchy.
3. Transfer the dough to a large oiled bowl, turning to coat. Then cover and chill overnight or for at least 8 hours.

FOR THE FILLING:
1. In a small saucepan, combine butter and cream. Heat over medium heat until butter is melted and the mixture
is steaming. Add the chocolate and stir until melted, then remove from the heat. Whisk in the powdered sugar
and cocoa powder. Transfer to a bowl and let cool until thickened to a spreadable consistency, about 1 hour.
2. For the assembly:
3. Butter 2 (8x4-inch) loaf pans or spray with baking spray with flour. Then line with parchment paper.
4. On a lightly floured surface, divide the chilled dough in half, and return one dough ball to the fridge. Gently roll the dough into a 12x16-inch rectangle. Spread half of the filling on dough all the way to the edge on three
sides, leaving a 1-inch border on one short side. (The dough may pull a little bit while spreading, but it
shouldn’t tear.) Starting at the short side opposite the border, roll the dough into a tight coil, and pinch the
seam to seal.
5. Using a large sharp knife, cut the dough in half lengthwise. Position each half parallel to each other with the cut
sides facing up. Twist the halves together, keeping the cut sides facing up, and tuck the ends under. Gently
place in a prepared loaf pan.
6. Repeat with the second half of the dough and the remaining filling.
7. Loosely cover the pans and let rise in a warm place for 1 1/2 to 2 hours or until noticeably puffed. (It won’t
quite double in size)
8. Preheat the oven to 350F.
9. Bake the risen loaves for 40 minutes or until the tops are golden brown, and a wooden pick can be inserted
into the center without resistance and comes out clean.
FOR THE SYRUP:
1. While the babkas are baking, combine the sugar and water in a small saucepan. Bring to a simmer over
medium heat, stirring until the sugar is fully dissolved. Remove from the heat.
2. Brush the loaves with the syrup immediately when they come out of the oven. Let the babkas cool for 30
minutes in the pans. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Notes
This recipe makes 2 (8x4-inch) loaves.
For fast-acting yeast, you can dissolve it in a warm (110F) mixture of milk with 2 tablespoons of the sugar. Set
aside until bubbly and add to the dry mixture.
I love using high-quality Dutch-processed cocoa powder. Dutch-processed cocoa powder is darker, less
acidic, and fudgier in baked goods. I like using Hershey’s or Ghirardelli.
To be extra sure that a loaf has finished baking, you can use an instant-read thermometer to check if the
internal temperature has reached 190°F. This method is also great if you don’t have a long enough toothpick to
get to the middle of the loaf.
Don’t skip the syrup at the end. It not only makes the exterior shiny but helps keeps the bread from drying
out. 
If you don’t have a mixer, you can mix the dough with a wooden spoon in a large bowl before kneading the
dough by hand. It will take at least 10 to 15 minutes. Be careful not to over flour the counter if you’re hand
kneading, as you don’t want to incorporate too much additional flour into the dough.

Nutrition
Calories: 444kcal Carbohydrates: 52g Protein: 8g Fat: 24g Saturated Fat: 14g Trans Fat: 1g
Cholesterol: 86mg Sodium: 247mg Potassium: 217mg Fiber: 4g Sugar: 20g Vitamin A: 582IU Vitamin C: 1mg
Calcium: 42mg Iron: 4mg

Course: Dessert Cuisine: Eastern European
© 2026 Preppy Kitchen
https://preppykitchen.com/chocolate-babka/