Fig Cake with Almonds and Honey - The Mediterranean Dish
Fig Cake with Almonds and Honey
4.88 from 40 votes
This rich but fluffy snacking cake with honey, cinnamon, and Greek yogurt is baked in
a tart pan to keep it nice and light (a 9-inch pan works if you don’t have one). The simple cake perfect
for a light and rustic dessert or an afternoon snack. If you can’t get your hands on ripe figs, stir 1 cup
of chopped dried figs right into the batter in their place. Other sliced seasonal fruits like persimmons,
cherries, or pears also work well as a substitute.

Prep Time
15 mins
Cook Time
35 mins
Total Time
50 mins
Course: Dessert
Cuisine: Spanish
Diet: Vegetarian
Servings: 12 
Author: Mark Beahm

Ingredients
For the Cake
1 cup (100g) almond flour
1/2 cup (60g) all-purpose flour (standard or gluten free)
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/3 cup Greek yogurt, plus more for serving
1/3 cup extra virgin olive oil
1/2 cup honey, plus more for serving
2 large eggs

For the Topping
8 fresh figs, quartered, plus more for serving
1/4 cup sliced almonds
1 tablespoon granulated sugar (optional)

Instructions
1. Get ready. Arrange a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 350°F. Lightly oil a 9-inch
fluted tart pan (or a 9-inch round cake pan) and line the bottom with a round of parchment
paper.
2. Combine the dry ingredients. Whisk together the almond flour, all-purpose flour, cinnamon,
baking soda, and salt in a medium mixing bowl. Use the whisk to break up any clumps in the
almond flour.
3. Combine the wet ingredients. In a separate large mixing bowl, whisk together the Greek yogurt,
olive oil, honey, and eggs until fully combined.
4. Make the batter. Add the flour mixture to the yogurt mixture and fold with a silicone spatula
until combined and smooth.
5. Add the toppings. Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top with a spatula.
Scatter the figs over the top of the cake, lightly pressing them into the batter. Sprinkle the top
with the sliced almonds and granulated sugar (if using).
6. Bake. Set the tart pan on a baking sheet and bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until a wooden skewer
inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean. The top of the cake will be golden brown
and the sides should pull away from the edge of the pan slightly.
7. Cool. Allow the cake to cool completely in the pan on a wire rack. If your tart pan has a false
bottom, push the bottom of the pan to separate the cake from the edge of the pan, then carefully
slide the cake onto a plate. If you used a cake pan, run a butter knife along the side of the cake,
and carefully transfer the cake onto a plate.
8. Serve. When the cake has cooled completely, slice and serve at room temperature with extra figs,
a dollop of Greek yogurt, and a drizzle of honey.

Notes
Store at room temperature in an airtight container or covered tightly for up to three days, or in
the refrigerator for up to five days.
To freeze, double wrap the completely cooled cake tightly in plastic wrap or foil. Freeze for up to
three months. Thaw covered, in the refrigerator overnight or on the counter for about one hour.

Visit 
our shop to browse quality Mediterranean ingredients including olive oils, honey, jams, and spices.

Nutrition
Calories: 286.2kcal | Carbohydrates: 28.2g | Protein: 7.1g | Fat: 18.1g | Saturated Fat: 1.9g |
Polyunsaturated Fat: 1.2g | Monounsaturated Fat: 5.6g | Trans Fat: 0.003g | Cholesterol: 27.6mg |
Sodium: 84.8mg | Potassium: 130.5mg | Fiber: 3.6g | Sugar: 19.1g | Vitamin A: 87.5IU | Vitamin C: 0.7mg |
Calcium: 73.9mg | Iron: 1.5mg

QR code
Scan this QR code with your phone's camera to view this recipe on your mobile device.
https://www.themediterraneandish.com/fig-cake/
https://www.themediterraneandish.com/wprm_print/fig-cake-with-almonds-and-honey