French Apple Cake
Recipe video above. This is a lovely simple recipe for a traditional French Apple Cake that my mum made almost every week when I was growing up in France. My version is almost the same as my Mum’s, but I changed it slightly 
I can't help it, I'm a chef! The cake is beautifully moist and can be served warm (for me, the best way!) or at room temperature with some vanilla ice cream or whipped cream on the side.
Rum option - I know some recipes add rum to this cake, but my mum never did, so this version doesn’t include any. However, if you would like to add some, 1 tablespoon of dark or spiced rum works beautifully. It won’t change the texture, but it adds a lovely warmth and gently perfumes the cake 
 
Prep Time: 20 mins 
Cook Time: 30 mins
Resting and Cooling: 15 mins
Total Time: 1 hr 5 mins

Course: Baking, Dessert, Sweet
Cuisine: French
Keyword: apple cake, French apple cake
Servings: 8 - 10
Calories: 230cal 
Author: Chef JB (RecipeTin)

Ingredients
3 red apples - I like Pink Lady , peeled and diced into 1.5cm/0.6" cubes (~ 3 1/2 cups) (Note 1 for other varieties)
100g(7 tbsp) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup caster sugar / superfine sugar (Note 2)
3 large eggs , at room temperature (55g/2oz each in shell)
1 tsp vanilla extract , natural / pure
1 1/3 cups plain flour / all-purpose flour
1 1/4 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp cooking salt / kosher salt

For serving:
Icing sugar / powdered sugar , for dusting
Vanilla ice cream or whipped cream, optional for serving

Instructions

ABBREVIATED RECIPE
1. Cream butter then sugar. Beat in eggs one at a time, then vanilla. Beat in dry ingredients, stir
through apple. Bake in 23cm/9" pan at 180°C/350°F (160°C fan) for 30 minutes.

FULL RECIPE
1. Preheat the oven to 180°C/350°F (160°C fan-forced).
2. Cake pan – Butter a 23cm/9" round cake pan and line the base with baking paper /
parchment paper. No need to line the sides.
3. Dry ingredients – In a separate bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder and salt.
4. Cream butter and sugar – Using a handheld beater or stand mixer with the paddle
attachment, beat the butter for 1 minute on medium until creamed. Add the sugar and beat
on medium for 1 minute until fluffy and becomes a paler yellow.
5. Eggs and vanilla – Add the eggs one at a time, mixing well after each addition. Beat in the
vanilla extract.
6. Add the flour mixture into the bowl and beat on low until you can no longer see dry flour,
then stop beating. You don't want to overmix.
7. Apples – Stir through the diced apples using a spatula. The batter will be quite thick, it's not
pourable.
8. Bake – Spread the batter evenly into the prepared cake pan. Bake for 35 minutes, or until a
skewer inserted in the centre comes out clean (because the batter is quite thick and if your
oven runs a bit cool, it could take up to 45 minutes). (Note 3)
9. Rest and serve – Let the cake rest for 5 minutes in the pan before removing. Cool for a
further 10 minutes then serve warm or let it cool completely on a wire rack. Dust with icing
sugar, if desired. If serving warm, it's especially lovely with a scoop of ice cream.

Notes
1. Apples - You can really use any apples for this cake as they won't get overly soft in this recipe. I
like to use sweet-tart apples like Pink Lady (this is what I use), Fuji and Jazz. Honey Crisp or
Braeburn for US/UK. I personally wouldn't use Granny Smith because I think it's too tart, but you
can if you want to.
2. Sugar - Regular white sugar (granulated sugar) will work too. I use caster sugar as my default
for baking because the grains are finer so it dissolves more easily.
3. Baking time - it can vary depending on your oven and the apples used. If your oven runs a little
cool, the cake may take up to 45 minutes or sometimes a bit longer to bake through. If the top is
browning too quickly, loosely cover with foil and continue baking. Don’t worry if it takes longer
than expected, this is quite a forgiving cake.
Leftovers and storage - It will keep for 5 days in the fridge in an airtight container. It also freezes
very well for up to 2 months.

Nutrition per slice, assuming 10 servings.

Nutrition
Calories: 230cal | Carbohydrates: 33g | Protein: 4g | Fat: 10g | Saturated Fat: 6g | Polyunsaturated Fat:
1g | Monounsaturated Fat: 3g | Trans Fat: 0.3g | Cholesterol: 71mg | Sodium: 143mg | Potassium:
130mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 19g | Vitamin A: 341IU | Vitamin C: 2mg | Calcium: 36mg | Iron: 1mg
Another great recipe by recipetineats.com

https://www.recipetineats.com/wprm_print/french-apple-cake