Japanese Castella Cake - Mochi Mommy
Japanese Castella Cake
Make this classic Japanese snacking cake easily at home. Perfect with tea or even a scoop
of ice cream.
Course: Dessert, Snack 
Cuisine: Japanese 
Prep Time: 10 mins 
Cook Time: 50 mins
Cooling Time: 40 mins 
Total Time: 1 hr 40 mins 
Servings: 1 8x4" cake
Author: Mochi Mommy

Equipment
stand mixer or handheld electric mixer
8x4" metal loaf tin

Ingredients
For Castella Cake
4 room temperature large eggs
1/2 cup granulated sugar (100g)
2 tbsp honey
2 tbsp neutral flavored oil (such as canola)
2 tbsp whole milk
1 cup bread flour (130g)
2 tbsp coarse sugar (such as turbinado)
For Optional Honey Syrup
2 tbsp warm water
2 tbsp honey

Instructions
1. Preheat oven to 350F. Grease and line an 8x4" metal loaf pan with parchment paper. Evenly sprinkle the 2 tbsp
of coarse sugar into the bottom of the loaf pan and set aside while you make the cake batter.
2. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, add eggs and 1/2 cup of sugar. Beat until the egg
mixture becomes very light in color and fluffy in texture. When you lift the whisk out of the batter, it should trail off the whisk in "ribbons" that hold its shape slightly before melting back into the bowl.
3. Add honey, milk, and oil and beat again until well mixed.
4. Add in bread flour and gently whisk until just combined.
5. From slightly higher above the loaf pan than you might normally hold your bowl, pour the cake batter into the
prepared pan. This is to get rid of any large bubbles in the batter.
6. Swirl a chopstick through the batter in the loaf tin to remove any remaining large bubbles.
7. Bake in your preheated oven for 40-50 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean
and the top is browned. Check at around the 30 minute mark. If your cake is browning too quickly at the top
you can cover it with aluminum foil and/or reduce the oven temperature to 300F. Every oven is slightly different
so adjust accordingly.
8. Remove cake from oven and allow to cool to room temperature in the tin. As soon as the cake is cooled
enough to touch, I recommend covering with plastic wrap so that it doesn't dry out. When cake is cooled, you
can remove it from the tin. The typical presentation is to slice the brown edges off the side of the cake, leaving
the brown crust on the top and the crunchy sugar crust on the bottom, but there's nothing wrong with eating
the brown side edges. You can also slice the cake lengthwise in half and then crosswise into about half inch
slices.
9. This cake can be served on its own as a snack with tea. If you find that it has dried out a little, I recommend
making the honey syrup and brushing it onto the cake before serving. This cake also tastes great with whipped
cream and fresh fruit or even a scoop of vanilla ice cream. Leftovers can be kept in an airtight container at room
temperature.

Notes
You can skip the coarse sugar crust on the bottom if you'd like.
You can substitute all-purpose flour for the bread flour. The texture of your cake will not be quite as sturdy but it still bakes fine.

https://www.mochimommy.com/wprm_print/japanese-castella-cake
