Red Velvet Cake - Preppy Kitchen
Red Velvet Cake
Author: John Kanell Servings: 6 servings
Prep Time: 1 hour 30 minutes Cook Time: 30 minutes Total Time: 2 hours
Moist and tender with a tangy cream cheese frosting, this Red Velvet Cake is a classic dessert that everyone
will love. It's the perfect cake for any occasion.

Equipment
6-inch or 9-inch cake pans
Mixing Bowls
Electric hand or stand mixer
Wire cooling rack
Piping bag and tip

Ingredients
FOR THE CAKE:
2 ½cupsall-purpose flour (300g)
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
½cupunsalted butter room temperature (113g)
1 ½ cups granulated sugar (300g)
2 large eggs room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 tablespoons cocoa powder
1 cup buttermilk room temperature (240ml)
1 tablespoon white vinegar
1 to 2 tablespoons liquid red food coloring

FOR THE CREAM CHEESE FROSTING:
2 8-ounce blocks cream cheese room temperature (454g)
1 ½ cups unsalted butter room temperature (340g)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pinch kosher salt
1 ½ pounds confectioners sugar sifted (5½ cups/675g)

Instructions
FOR THE CAKE:
1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 6-inch cake pans. (See notes about using two 9
inch cake pans.)
2. In a medium bowl, sift together the flour, salt, and baking soda.
3. In a large mixing bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, cream the butter on
medium speed. Add in sugar and mix on medium until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add the eggs in one at
a time, beating each until well combined. Beat in the vanilla.
4. Sift the cocoa powder into the butter mixture and beat just until combined. Scrape down the bowl.
5. In a liquid measuring cup, mix together the buttermilk, vinegar, and red food coloring. (The more you use the
brighter the color when baked.)
6. With the mixer on low speed, add half of the flour mixture followed by half of the buttermilk mixture to the
mixing bowl, beating just until combined. Repeat with the remaining flour and buttermilk. Stop and scrape
down the bowl occasionally. Divide the batter among the prepared pans.
7. Bake for about 30 to 35 minutes or until the centers are springy to the touch. When done, let them cool in
their pans for about 10 minutes, then turn them out onto a wire rack to cool completely.

FOR THE CREAM CHEESE FROSTING:
1. In a large mixing bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter and
cream cheese together on medium speed until smooth and fluffy, about 3 minutes.
2. Add the vanilla and salt and beat until combined.
3. Sift the confectioner's sugar into a large bowl.
4. With the mixer on low speed, gradually the sugar into the butter mixture until combined. Stop and scrape
down the bowl occasionally. Increase speed to medium and beat until fluffy, about 1 minute. Place about a cup
of frosting to a piping bag with a decorative tip.
FOR THE ASSEMBLY:
1. Place a cake layer on a cake stand or serving plate. Spread about ½ cup of frosting on top of the cake. Place
another cake layer on top and repeat with the frosting. Top with the final cake layer and spread the remaining
frosting all over the top and sides of the cake.
2. Use a bench scraper or offset spatula to smooth out the cake. Pipe a decorative border on top of the cake or
as desired. Chill the cake for about 1 hour or until the frosting is set. Any leftover cake should be covered and
can be stored at room temperature for up to 2 days or refrigerated for up to 1 week.

Notes
If the tops of your cake layers are domed, use a serrated knife to cut off the top of the domes so you can
stack them evenly. Alternatively, use cake strips to help your cake layers come out evenly. Cake strips work by
keeping the outside edge of the pan cooler to ensure that the entire cake rises at the same rate, preventing a
dome from forming in the middle. If you don’t want to buy cake strips, I have a post on how to DIY cake strips.
I highly recommend using a scale to measure your flour as it’s the most accurate method. If you don’t have a
scale, fluff your flour with a spoon and spoon it into your cups before leveling it off with a knife. This method
prevents you from overpacking the measuring cup.
If the ingredients were refrigerated, such as the eggs, milk, and cream cheese, it’s best to bring them to room
temperature before using them so they mix effortlessly without overmixing.
Be gentle when handling the layers during assembly, as the cake is very tender.
The best way to let your butter come to room temperature is to bring it out of the fridge 1 to 2 hours
beforehand and allow it to sit on your kitchen counter. Softening the butter in the microwave will carry the risk
of it melting and making the cream cheese frosting runny. To speed up the process of the butter coming to
room temperature, you can cube it instead of leaving the sticks whole.
Make sure to sift the dry ingredients to remove any lumps. This will help to keep the cake’s crumb soft and
light.
For a large cake, divide the batter among two 9-inch round cake pans. The layers will be a bit thinner, so the
bake time will decrease by about 5 minutes.
If you do not have any buttermilk, see my post on how to make buttermilk with only two ingredients.

Nutrition
Calories: 1504kcal Carbohydrates: 212g Protein: 22g Fat: 66g Saturated Fat: 41g Polyunsaturated Fat: 3g
Monounsaturated Fat: 17g Trans Fat: 2g Cholesterol: 238mg Sodium: 1177mg Potassium: 392mg Fiber: 2g
Sugar: 167g Vitamin A: 2087IU Calcium: 350mg Iron: 3mg
Course: Dessert Cuisine: American
© 2026 Preppy Kitchen
https://preppykitchen.com/best-red-velvet-cake/
