Zuppa Inglese Recipe
Find more recipes at marcellinaincucina.com
This is one of the best Italian desserts! Zuppa Inglese, which literally
translates to "English soup", consists of layers of alchermes soaked
savoiardi and vanilla and chocolate pastry cream. This is a classic Italian
favorite and my mother always made this for Christmas and the holidays.

Prep Time: 15 mins
Cook Time: 15 mins
Chilling Time: 2 hrs 
Total Time: 2 hrs 30 mins

Servings: 6 people 
Author: Marcellina

Equipment
6 glasses of about 1 cup capacity

Ingredients
Pastry Cream
3 cups whole milk (710 mls)
1 vanilla bean
1 strip lemon peel
6 egg yolks
¾ cup granulated white sugar (150 grams)
⅓ cup all purpose flour (41 grams)
2 ounces dark chocolate (60 grams , chopped )

Assemble Zuppa Inglese
¾ cup alchermes liqueur (180 mls)
¼ cup water (60 mls)
18 savoiardi cookies (or Italian ladyfingers)

Instructions
Make the pastry cream
1. First cut the vanilla bean down the middle. With the back of a knife scrape out the seeds.
2. Place the vanilla seeds, split pod, milk, and a strip of lemon rind in a medium sized pot.
3. Heat over low heat until the milk is just before simmering point. Don't boil.
4. In a bowl whisk egg yolks, granulated white sugar and all purpose flour until smooth. Take
care that there are no lumps.
5. Remove lemon rind and vanilla bean from the milk.
6. Slowly pour the hot milk onto the egg yolk mixture, whisking constantly.
7. Strain the mixture back to the pot and place over medium low heat. Whisk constantly until the mixture comes to a boil and thickens. Simmer for 1 minute to cook the flour.
8. Divide the pastry cream between two heat proof bowls. Cover one bowl with plastic wrap ensuring the plastic is in complete contact with the pastry cream. Add the chopped chocolate to the second bowl and stir until the chocolate has melted and is thoroughly combined. Cover with plastic wrap ensuring the plastic is in complete contact with the chocolate pastry cream.
9. Refrigerate until thoroughly chilled.
10. Before using, stir until smooth.

Assemble Zuppa Inglese
1. Combine the alchermes liqueur with the water in a medium bowl.
2. Cut the savoiardi in half and dip quickly but completely into the alchermes mixture.
3. Layer three halves at the bottom of the serving glass. Top with approximately two heaped tablespoons of chocolate pastry cream followed by two heaped tablespoons of vanilla pastry cream. Repeat the same layering of alchermes soaked savoiardi and two types of pastry cream.
4. Repeat with the remaining five glasses using up all of the savoiardi, alchermes and pastry cream.
5. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 2 hours to set.

Notes
Tips for Success
To achieve perfectly smooth Italian pastry cream, it is very important to whisk constantly while cooking.
If you’ve ended up with lumps, pass the hot pastry cream mixture through a fine mesh sieve.
Be careful not to over soak or under soak savoiardi in the liqueur.  Dipping the first few will help you figure that out. But this is your recipe so soak a lot if you like or don't soak very much.

To make without chocolate
Add one tablespoon of cocoa powder in place of the chocolate. Dust the tops with cocoa powder instead of chocolate.
For more tips and information, read above.

Nutrition
Calories: 534kcal | Carbohydrates: 76g | Protein: 11g | Fat: 15g | Saturated Fat: 7g |
Polyunsaturated Fat: 1g | Monounsaturated Fat: 4g | Trans Fat: 0.003g | Cholesterol: 259mg |
Sodium: 115mg | Potassium: 287mg | Fiber: 1g | Sugar: 54g | Vitamin A: 461IU | Calcium: 204mg |
Iron: 2mg

Zuppa Inglese Recipe - Marcellina In Cucina
Zuppa Inglese Recipe https://www.marcellinaincucina.com/zuppa-inglese/
Scan the QR code to check for any recipe updates, including tips, answers and to ask me any questions.

https://www.marcellinaincucina.com/wprm_print/zuppa-inglese-recipe